---
title: Producing IgProf profile reports
layout: default
related:
 - { name: Top, link: . }
 - { name: Downloads, link: https://github.com/ktf/igprof/tags }
 - { name: Bugs, link: https://github.com/ktf/igprof/issues }
 - { name: Project, link: https://github.com/ktf/igprof/ }
---
Assuming you obtained some profile statistics files [as shown on the running
page](running.html), the next step is to process these to obtain useful
(and readable) profile reports. The profile statistics files themselves just
contain the raw data needed to produce the reports. An additional
tool, igprof-analyse, is used to process the raw profile statistics into
the report.

### Output report formats

Before we describe how to actually produce the reports, we note that igprof
supports two types of reports:

 - simple ASCII text (flat file) reports
 - sqlite database files that can be inspected using a web browser (using
   the igprof-navigator cgi script)

To create and use the ASCII text reports, no additional tools are required
except your favorite editor or pager (less, more, etc.). To create and use the
web-navigable version, however, two additional things are needed:

 - sqlite and in particular the command line 'sqlite3' application
 - access to a web visible-area where you are able to place a cgi script
   (and some sqlite data files) 

The web-navigable version has the advantage of making it easy, for example,
to navigate from one part of a call stack to another, and also allows one
to share with your colleagues URL's pointing to specific issues within the
profile. 

### Performance profiling reports

  If you have run igprof in performance profiling (-pp) mode, you can 
produce the ASCII text version of the report with:

    igprof-analyse -d -v -g igprof.pp.gz >& igreport_perf.res

Here "igprof.pp.gz" is the name of the profile statistics file produced
by igprof and igreport_perf.res file is the output report itself. 
  The `-g` and `-d` options are given for more accurate and appealing
presentation of function names.  The `-v` option just gives you more
information of the analysis itself, it's mostly useful when the profile
statistics are huge and take a while to process.  

Once you have this ASCII text report, you can proceed to
the [documentation about the text report](text-output-format.html).

  To produce the sqlite file for the web-navigable version of the report,
you need to do:

    igprof-analyse --sqlite -d -v -g igprof.pp.gz | sqlite3 igreport_perf.sql3

The output file here is igreport_perf.sql3. You can use any file name you
like, but the file extension should be ".sql3".

  Once you have the sqlite report file, you should proceed to the section
below on setting up the web navigation via the cgi script.

### Memory profiling reports

  If you have run igprof in memory profiling (-mp) mode, producing reports 
is analogous to that described for the performance profiling above. The
one difference is that several types of reports can be produced from 
the profile statistics produced from memory profiling:

* `MEM_LIVE` records the "live" memory -- memory that hasn't
  been freed. If the profile statistics file you are processing came from
  the end of the application's run, this will be the memory leaked by the
  job. If the profile statistics file was triggered during the running
  of the job, it is a snapshot of the heap, i.e. a heap profile. The statistic 
  is accurate (not
  statistical) and records the number of bytes allocated and the number of calls
  involved.
* `MEM_TOTAL` records the total amount of memory allocated by any function.
  You can use it to locate functions that allocate excessive amounts of memory
  even if they don't leak it.  It can also be used to hint at pieces of code
  that may cause poor memory locality, which is could easily cause performance
  degradation throughout the programme with no one place being particularly
  slow.
* `MEM_LIVE_PEAK` is similar to `MEM_LIVE`, but records the peak amount of
  memory allocated by any one function at any one time.  It indicates how much
  memory the application would use if all of its parts held to all of their
  live allocations simultaneously.  Note that it does _not_ tell you how much
  the whole application allocate at its largest; that will be less than
  `MEM_LIVE_PEAK`, but the latter will give a useful worst-case upper bound.
* `MEM_MAX` records the largest single allocation by any function.

To produce the ASCII text report for MEM_TOTAL from a memory profiling
statistics file, you do:

    igprof-analyse -d -h -v -g -r MEM_TOTAL igprof.mp.gz > igreport_total.res

The `-d`, `-v` and `g` options are the same as described above for the
performance profiling. The `-r` option selects the statistic to report. The 
possible statistics for the memory profiler are `MEM_LIVE`, `MEM_TOTAL` `MEM_LIVE_PEAK`, and `MEM_MAX`, as described above. You can proceed to the [documentation about the text report](text-output-format.html). 

  Similarly, the sqlite version of the report can be produced with:

    igprof-analyse --sqlite -d -v -g -r MEM_TOTAL igprof.mp.gz | sqlite3 igreport_total.sql3

  Once you have the sqlite report file, you should proceed to the section
below on setting up the web navigation via the cgi script.

### Processing profile statistics from multiple runs

It is also possible to combine the statistics from multiple runs into
a single report, simply by specifying more than one statistics file
on the command line:

    igprof-analyse -d -v -g igrun1.pp.gz igrun2.pp.gz igrun3.pp.gz > igrunall_perf.res

This is possible for both the performance and memory reports and for both
types of outputs (ASCII text and sqlite/web).

### Setting up the web-navigable reports

  As noted above, access to a "cgi-bin" area which is visible via some
web server is needed in order to use the sqlite/web-visible version
of the report. If you have such an area, you can do the following:

    cp $IGSRC/igprof-navigator $PATHTOCGIAREA/
    mkdir -p $PATHTOCGIAREA/data
    cp igreport_perf.sql3 $PATHTOCGIAREA/data

where $IGSRC is wherever you have the igprof sources. Then you can access
the report via some url like:

    http://yoursite/x/y/z/cgi-bin/igprof-navigator/igreport_perf/

can be used to open and view the report. The sqlite data file always
needs to be in a subdirectory "data" of the place where the igprof-navigator 
script is located. The filename extension should be ".sql3", even if the URL
will specify the sqlite filename without the extension. The $PATHTOCGIAREA
and "http://yoursite/x/y/z/cgi-bin/" will of course depend on the
precise details of the site where you are working.

  To be clear, here is a concrete example for people with unix user accounts
at [CERN][]. Normal unix accounts have a user web-visible 
area under their home directory called:

    $HOME/public/www/

Any files placed in that directory are web-visible. To run CGI scripts, one 
can create a "cgi-bin" directory within that area:

    mkdir -p $HOME/public/www/cgi-bin

One can copy in the igprof-navigator script from wherever one has
downloaded the igprof sources:

    cp $SOMEWHERE/igprof-navigator $HOME/public/www/cgi-bin/

and copy in the sqlite file:

    mkdir -p $HOME/public/www/cgi-bin/data/
    cp $WORKAREA/foo_perf.sql3 $HOME/public/www/cgi-bin/data/

The URL to the report will then be:

    http://cern.ch/<username>/cgi-bin/igprof-navigator/foo_perf/

Note that it is also possible (in any site, not just CERN) to create
subdirectories under the "data" directory

    mkdir -p $HOME/public/www/cgi-bin/data/orig/
    cp $WORKAREA_ORIG/foo_perf.sql3 $HOME/public/www/cgi-bin/data/orig/

    mkdir -p $HOME/public/www/cgi-bin/data/new/
    cp $WORKAREA_NEW/foo_perf.sql3 $HOME/public/www/cgi-bin/data/new/

and use URL's like:

    http://cern.ch/<username>/cgi-bin/igprof-navigator/orig/foo_perf/
    http://cern.ch/<username>/cgi-bin/igprof-navigator/new/foo_perf/

This allows one to organize the data files a bit better than just by
filename. An example profile can be found [here][example-profile].

[CERN]: http://www.cern.ch/
[example-profile]: http://eulisse.web.cern.ch/eulisse/performance/navigator/performance-report
